.. _20250305:

================================
"Rust"… is it a fungus metaphor?
================================

"Rust" has always struck me as a funny name for a programming language.
Isn't it usually a bad thing to get rust on metal belongings? Growing up,
didn't my mom caution me against touching rusty stuff?

.. _How Rust went from a side project to the world’s most-loved programming language: https://web.archive.org/web/20240919102849/https://www.technologyreview.com/2023/02/14/1067869/rust-worlds-fastest-growing-programming-language/

As it turns out, the name did not start out as an iron oxide reference. It was
a fungus reference! From `How Rust went from a side project to the world’s
most-loved programming language`_:

  [Graydon Hoare] named it Rust, after a group of remarkably hardy fungi that
  are, he says, "over-engineered for survival."

.. _scraping the bottom of the barrel: https://dictionary.cambridge.org/us/dictionary/english/scrape-the-bottom-of-the-barrel
.. _mycology: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mycology

So, if you find yourself `scraping the bottom of the barrel`_ of iron oxide
and crustacean metaphors when naming your next Rust library, consider a
`mycology`_ one instead!

Ironically, the connotations of rust (fungi) are not much better than
rust (iron oxide). Rust (fungi) are highly specialized plant pathogens
that frequently cause significant damage to economically important crops.

.. _the soup metaphor scene: https://youtu.be/UOs-4J6rr-w?t=122

P.S. the title of this blog post is an homage to `the soup metaphor scene`_
from *The Grand Budapest Hotel*.

.. _rust itself does not cause tetanus: https://www.mcgill.ca/oss/article/did-you-know/rust-doesnt-cause-tetanus

P.P.S. `rust itself does not cause tetanus`_. It's a matter of correlation,
not causation.
